# DallE and DallE 2

No.: 30
title:Improving Image Generation with Better Captions
author:James Betker, James Betker, Li Jing, Tim Brooks, Jianfeng Wang, Linjie Li,  Long Ouyang, Juntang Zhuang, Joyce Lee, Yufei Guo, Wesam Manassra, Prafulla Dhariwal, Casey Chu, Yunxin Jiao, Aditya Ramesh
abstract:We show that prompt following abilities of text-to-image models can be substantially improved by training on highly descriptive generated image captions. Existing text-to-image models struggle to follow detailed image descriptions and often ignore words or confuse the meaning of prompts. We hypothesize that this issue stems from noisy and inaccurate image captions in the training dataset. We address this by training a bespoke image captioner and use it to recaption the training dataset. We then train several text-to-image models and find that training on these synthetic captions reliably improves prompt following ability. Finally, we use these findings to build DALL-E 3: a new text-to-image generation system, and benchmark its performance on an evaluation designed to measure prompt following, coherence, and aesthetics, finding that it compares favorably to competitors. We publish samples and code for these evaluations so that future research can continue optimizing this important aspect of text-to-image systems.

No.: 31
title:Hierarchical Text-Conditional Image Generation with CLIP Latents
author:Aditya Ramesh, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alex Nichol, Casey Chu, Mark Chen
abstract:Contrastive models like CLIP have been shown to learn robust representations of images that capture both semantics and style. To leverage these representations for image generation, we propose a two-stage model: a prior that generates a CLIP image embedding given a text caption, and a decoder that generates an image conditioned on the image embedding. We show that explicitly generating image representations improves image diversity with minimal loss in photorealism and caption similarity. Our decoders conditioned on image representations can also produce variations of an image that preserve both its semantics and style, while varying the non-essential details absent from the image representation. Moreover, the joint embedding space of CLIP enables language-guided image manipulations in a zero-shot fashion. We use diffusion models for the decoder and experiment with both autoregressive and diffusion models for the prior, finding that the latter are computationally more efficient and produce higher-quality samples.

No.: 32
title:SDEdit: Guided Image Synthesis and Editing with Stochastic Differential Equations
author:Chenlin Meng, Yutong He, Yang Song, Jiaming Song, Jiajun Wu, Jun-Yan Zhu, Stefano Ermon
abstract:Guided image synthesis enables everyday users to create and edit photo-realistic images with minimum effort. The key challenge is balancing faithfulness to the user input (e.g., hand-drawn colored strokes) and realism of the synthesized image. Existing GAN-based methods attempt to achieve such balance using either conditional GANs or GAN inversions, which are challenging and often require additional training data or loss functions for individual applications. To address these issues, we introduce a new image synthesis and editing method, Stochastic Differential Editing (SDEdit), based on a diffusion model generative prior, which synthesizes realistic images by iteratively denoising through a stochastic differential equation (SDE). Given an input image with user guide of any type, SDEdit first adds noise to the input, then subsequently denoises the resulting image through the SDE prior to increase its realism. SDEdit does not require task-specific training or inversions and can naturally achieve the balance between realism and faithfulness. SDEdit significantly outperforms state-of-the-art GAN-based methods by up to 98.09% on realism and 91.72% on overall satisfaction scores, according to a human perception study, on multiple tasks, including stroke-based image synthesis and editing as well as image compositing.