# Generative modeling of video data using autoregressive transformers

No.: 08
title:VideoGPT: Video Generation using VQ-VAE and Transformers
author:Wilson Yan, Yunzhi Zhang, Pieter Abbeel, Aravind Srinivas
abstract:We present VideoGPT: a conceptually simple architecture for scaling likelihood based generative modeling to natural videos. VideoGPT uses VQVAE that learns downsampled discrete latent representations of a raw video by employing 3D convolutions and axial self-attention. A simple GPTlike architecture is then used to autoregressively model the discrete latents using spatio-temporal position encodings. Despite the simplicity in formulation and ease of training, our architecture is able to generate samples competitive with stateof-the-art GAN models for video generation on the BAIR Robot dataset, and generate high fidelity natural videos from UCF-101 and Tumbler GIF Dataset (TGIF). We hope our proposed architecture serves as a reproducible reference for a minimalistic implementation of transformer based video generation models. Samples and code are available at https://wilson1yan.github.io/videogpt/index.html

No.: 09
title:NU¨ WA: Visual Synthesis Pre-training for Neural visUal World creAtion
author:Chenfei Wu, Jian Liang, Lei Ji, Fan Yang, Yuejian Fang, Daxin Jiang, Nan Duan
abstract:This paper presents a unified multimodal pre-trained model called NÜWA that can generate new or manipulate existing visual data (i.e., images and videos) for various visual synthesis tasks. To cover language, image, and video at the same time for different scenarios, a 3D transformer encoder-decoder framework is designed, which can not only deal with videos as 3D data but also adapt to texts and images as 1D and 2D data, respectively. A 3D Nearby Attention (3DNA) mechanism is also proposed to consider the nature of the visual data and reduce the computational complexity. We evaluate NÜWA on 8 downstream tasks. Compared to several strong baselines, NÜWA achieves state-of-the-art results on text-to-image generation, text-to-video generation, video prediction, etc. Furthermore, it also shows surprisingly good zero-shot capabilities on text-guided image and video manipulation tasks.
